To initialize a new git repo and grant ssh access:
1. Go to your organization and under repositories, click on new (highlighted in green)
2. Provide a repository name under the (repository name box), provide a brief description in the description box for your new repo.
3. Indicate whether its a private repo or public repo. you can add a README file or .gitignore file if necessary.
4. click on create repository to create new repository.
5. In your local machine ( this process assumes you have a linux machine) create a new directory using the mkdir command and cd into the directory
6. Enter the 'git init' command to initialize this directory, making it able to track changes in your local and remote repository.
7  In your user home directory, run the code ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com" this code will generate a ssh private and public key using the email as label
8 You're then prompted to enter a file to save your keys. if you previously have ssh keys and you provide same filename, it just overwrites with the new ssh key.
9. You are also prompted to provide passphrase for added security. push enter twice to skip providing a passphrase.
10 Next you have to add your ssh keys to ssh agent. to start the agent run the code eval "$(ssh-agent -s)" This will show a process id to show that agent is running
11 Add your SSH private key to the SSH agent using the code ssh-add ~/.ssh/ssh_filename (the path should end with the filename of your ssh keys in place of ssh_filename)
12 cat and copy your public ssh keys (the one that ends with .pub) using the command cat ~/.ssh/ssh_filename
13 Click your profile photo, then click settings, navigate to the access section and click SSH and GPG Keys.
14 Click new SSH Key or Add SSH Key, In title field provide a brief description for the SSH key. Select the type of key.
15 Paste your public key in the key field. Click Add SSH key.
16 In your local git hub directory, use the code git remote add "paste ssh url of your git repo on git bash" and hit enter.
17 Now create a new file in your working area, used git add . to add that file to staging, then git commit -m "message" to enter commit message.
18 After a successful comit use git push origin main to push your code to the remote repo.
